>>>>[BACKGROUND MUSIC] And
I think many people today
don't know what to
believe anymore.
>>People are basically
going to keep on
to help uncover what
really happened.
>>I felt like something
was watching me.
>>We weren't given
all the information.
We weren't told
the entire story.
>>GEORGE NOORY: Welcome
to "Beyond Belief."
I'm George Noory.
This is going to be perhaps one
of the most important programs
you have ever
witnessed, because this
has to do with your
livelihood and the livelihood
of your family.
With us today is Michael Maloof.
He is the author of
"A Nation Forsaken."
This is probably one of the
most important books I have read
that has to do with our power
grid and the possibilities
of it going down
because of two things:
an EMP attack, an
Electromagnetic Pulse
attack from a country
that detonates
a nuke in the atmosphere, or
a major X flare from the sun.
And if you say
that can't happen,
it's already happened before.
We were just lucky
in the 1800s not
to have had a lot of
power or electricity.
We did have the telegraph,
and that went out.
With us, Michael Maloof.
Michael, thanks for joining us.
>>MICHAEL MALOOF:
Thanks for having me.
>>NOORY: You know,
I have undertaken,
with your help and
wnd.com, a national effort
to get our grid protected
from an EMP or an X flare.
I think it's critical.
After I read your book
and Bill Forstchen's book,
"One Second After," I said,
we've got to do something.
Rather than just go on the air
and do my shows about Bigfoot
and UFOs, I've gotta devote
some time to this vast subject,
with this huge audience, to get
people to understand that this
may be the biggest crisis
we will one day face.
And lo and behold, you
were there to help us.
And I want to
thank you for that.
>>MALOOF: My pleasure.
Thanks for having me,
first of all, but you're
absolutely right.
This is probably-- an
electromagnetic pulse event
is perhaps our greatest
national security threat today.
>>NOORY: Explain
what that is, an EMP.
>>MALOOF: An EMP is-- an
electromagnetic pulse--
is high intensity particles
which can flare off and come
at such a rapid rate of speed
and at such an acceleration
that they interfere
with our magnetic poles,
with our North Pole.
And as a consequence,
it also, because they're
so powerful and
highly charged, they
can wipe out any
unprotected electronics.
That would include
our grid, which
is highly vulnerable already.
We put so much
demand on that grid
today that it's
basically on overload.
We upgrade it, but in
doing that, we're not--
it's basically a
jerry-rigged system.
And in addition to that, our
electronics, our electronics,
our microchips have become much
more sophisticated, much more
delicate.
And as a consequence,
such a pulse
can absolutely knock
out that electronics.
Automated control systems, from
running the gas pump to ATMs.
Absolutely.
The automatic systems
for our pipelines.
We have more than a million
miles of pipelines, oil and gas
pipelines.
An EMP can trigger
those automatic systems
so that it builds up pressure
from the natural gas,
can cause explosions.
There's actually been instances
of that in isolated cases.
Oil pipelines.
Fires can develop.
But if this were to
happen with an EMP event
from a flare or a high
altitude nuclear explosion,
it would cover a far
greater geographical area.
Half the country,
the full country,
depending upon how
severe the EMP was.
And it could take months,
years to come back on.
By then, we will
have had affected
about 90% of the US population--
>>NOORY: Dead.
>>MALOOF: Dead.
From starvation--
>>NOORY: No water.
>>MALOOF: From disease.
No water.
Medical reasons.
And your urban centers could
be wiped out as a consequence.
>>NOORY: And we have
seen historically
what happens in a
community when you
can't have those basic services.
People riot.
>>MALOOF: Yes.
>>NOORY: People loot.
They do all these other
things to try to survive.
>>MALOOF: Yes.
>>NOORY: This would be--
gosh-- under biblical terms,
a catastrophe.
>>MALOOF: It would be.
And it would-- and
again, your urban centers
would be wiped out.
You would have secondary
problems emerging,
such as disease.
Sanitation problems.
And rioting, as you point out.
Just in the case
of natural events,
such as hurricanes and
heavy storms, flooding.
Our grocery stores, for
example, have maybe three days
of groceries at most.
They'll be wiped out in hours.
>>NOORY: Yeah.
>>MALOOF: Hours.
>>NOORY: Oh, we see what
happens during a snowstorm.
>>MALOOF: Oh, yeah.
>>NOORY: You know, the
weather man comes in and says,
tomorrow we're going to
have a little blizzard.
The stores are empty.
The bread, the milk.
Gone.
>>MALOOF: Completely.
Yeah.
It's almost automatic
that they'll do that.
And we have to rely on
distribution systems, which
are all automated in many
cases, to deliver those food
and water and other supplies,
including medication.
People have maybe, at most,
30 days of their prescription
medications.
All of that would stop.
>>NOORY: Not a matter of if, but
when one of these two episodes
will occur.
>>MALOOF: Yes.
They can.
And we just dodged
another large flare,
as you pointed
out in your intro.
You mentioned the 1859.
Well, two years
ago in 2012, NASA
reports that we just dodged
another huge one that
was at least
comparable to the 1859.
>>NOORY: It went off the
side of the sun, right?
>>MALOOF: Yeah.
It went off to the side.
We had a little bit of
effects, but not much.
If that had been a direct hit,
all industrialized countries
in the world would
have been affected.
The US the most because we rely
the most on our technology.
>>NOORY: Exactly.
>>MALOOF: It has made us the
greatest industrial power
in the world as we
are today, however
it's also our Achilles heel.
>>NOORY: Michael, when you
wrote "A Nation Forsaken," what
was it that you saw
which got you into this?
>>MALOOF: Well, I have a
few years of experience
with the federal
government, and we
began to see
countries in the work
that I did that were
developing and acquiring
the means of delivery
systems, or missiles,
and developing a nuclear
weapons capability.
We also saw testing that told
us it was less for destruction
but more to develop more of
a gamma ray type of emission
of these nuclear devices.
Low kilotonage but high
emission of gamma rays.
Gamma rays is one form of
electromagnetic energy.
Other forms would be microwaves,
such as off of your radar
systems.
And even on a lower basis, we
have lone wolves, if you will,
that are out there today.
Could actually take
surplus radar systems,
point it directly at
buildings, and fry electronics.
>>NOORY: Exactly.
And I think they've done that.
>>MALOOF: Yes, they have.
And the Russians actually have
had some experiences with that.
People will go in and
rob some jewelry stores,
and they've actually
used that device
to incapacitate
any alarm systems.
>>NOORY: Jeez.
In this edition of
"Beyond Belief,"
we're going to talk primarily
about the electromagnetic pulse
that would be created
from the detonation
of a nuke in the atmosphere.
How high up does that detonation
have to occur, Michael?
>>MALOOF: It can occur
from about 35 kilometers,
or about 50 miles up on
up to about 300 miles.
The higher the level,
the greater the coverage.
And dependent upon
the kilotonage,
it will determine what
electronics are knocked out,
and where.
For example, if you
detonate a device,
let's say, over Washington,
Boston corridor,
let's say at about
50 miles, that
would be the most affected area.
You're hitting the eastern grid.
We have three grids--
eastern, western, Texas.
Eastern grid--
>>NOORY: But they're
all connected, right?
>>MALOOF: They're all connected.
They're all connected.
But there would be
that ripple effect
that would affect them
all as a consequence.
But the most severe damage
would be the eastern grid,
in this example.
The eastern grid alone services
70% of the US population.
It would be devastating.
>>NOORY: How would
a nation know,
one, how high up
to go to detonate,
and two, the megatonnage
of the detonation?
Because I think both of
those would have to be ideal,
wouldn't they?
>>MALOOF: Not necessarily.
>>NOORY: I mean, if
you're up too high
and you don't have the mega
detonation power, that's
not gonna be effective, is it?
>>MALOOF: The bad
guys know how high
they should go for the
maximum impact that they want.
>>NOORY: They do already?
>>MALOOF: Yes.
Now, North Korea's
one of the countries
that I'm extremely
concerned about right now.
They have shown examples
of not only missile
testing-- their missile
testing has actually
been more towards
the South Pole.
As a consequence, we really
don't have missile defenses
along our southern
coast, as we should.
Most of ours are located
pointed toward the North Pole.
>>NOORY: Right.
>>MALOOF: And we've seen
in some of their testing
where they've actually
orbited a satellite.
That satellite, at
about 150, 200 miles up,
could be a nuclear device.
And we know they've
been testing,
and they have actually
threatened us.
And they can actually
detonate on command anywhere
in the world as a consequence.
So as a consequence,
you have North Korea
with this international
capability all of a sudden.
>>NOORY: Already?
>>MALOOF: Because of
this satellite, yeah.
And it can be the nuclear
device, be exploded.
Now, we have an
Aegis missile system
which is capable of hitting a
satellite at about 153 miles
up.
There's actually been an
actual operational example
of that at one time.
>>NOORY: Can you do
that before detonation?
Would that be OK?
>>MALOOF: If you could
catch the satellite in time.
The ideal time to
catch it is when
the missile is being launched.
>>NOORY: When it's
being launched.
>>MALOOF: And we
have Aegis systems
in cooperation with Japan, but
you don't know if it's test.
You don't want to be
shooting every missile out.
>>NOORY: Clearly
you can't do that.
>>MALOOF: You can't do that.
So this is why we hold our
breaths every time they
do a missile test.
>>NOORY: Are countries
concerned about this?
>>MALOOF: Oh, yeah.
They're very concerned about it.
Certainly all the
industrialized countries are.
And I would add
that North Korea,
every time they do a nuclear
test, underground nuclear test
with low kilotonage
but high gamma rays--
that's what some of our
results have shown--
the North Koreans openly
threaten the United States
with a nuclear attack.
>>[SPEAKING KOREAN]
>>MALOOF: And they just
did it a few weeks ago,
saying they wanted to
nuke the White House.
They've actually released videos
showing nuclear explosions
over the Capitol building,
and over Washington,
over New York City.
And this was-- They do it in a
very professional video format,
and it tells us that they
have something going for them.
It's a latent threat,
that every time-- and I
think it's designed to tell
us to quit doing exercises
with the South Koreans.
So there's messages there.
But we know they're
developing that capability,
and that's for real.
And unfortunately, we're
not providing the missile
defense systems,
and unfortunately
the whole issue of EMP
has become politicized.
People think that our-- that
the-- that the utilities
are capable of protecting
against such a development.
>>NOORY: No way.
>>MALOOF: No.
They cannot.
And especially over
a widespread area.
And they also think that
it's just a cover so
that the conservatives
can build missile defense
systems throughout
the United States.
The reality is we're
not defended adequately,
and the only thing that we have
going for us are these Aegis
systems, which we're actually
deploying in Europe right now,
which has upset the Russians.
But the Aegis system
is effective up to,
as I said, 150 miles.
Now, if they went ahead and
launched a satellite 200, 250
miles with a nuclear
device, then it
would pose a very
serious problem for us.
>>NOORY: And what about
tracking who did this?
That concerns me.
I mean, if you have a
missile launcher on a boat
off the coast of Los
Angeles or New York,
how do you know who's doing it?
>>MALOOF: You won't.
And that's the problem.
And I think that this problem
was accentuated even more
earlier this year when a
North Korean freighter was
seized in the Panama Canal.
They thought they were going
to get a load of drugs.
What they discovered, it
had just come from Cuba.
What they had discovered was
that there were components
and actually an SA2
missile onboard.
That is a surface
to air missile.
That goes back to the days
of the Cuban Missile Crisis.
That surface to air
missile is nuclear capable.
It was designed to
knock out aircraft.
But we assessed that because
the focus at that time in 1962
on the Cuban Missile Crisis was
on surface to surface missiles
to be cleared out, they didn't
care about the surface to air.
And now with the knowledge
of what an EMP can do,
they've changed completely.
You could have a freighter off
the east coast, west coast,
even the Gulf coast, where
we have no protection.
You could have it disguised
under a false flag.
You could put one of
those SA2 missiles
with a nuclear device
on it, shoot it up
over the east coast.
That's all you would need.
And then you would do
that in coordination
with other vulnerabilities that
this nation is facing today.
This country is
extremely vulnerable.
Not only just to a missile
attack and an EMP--
>>NOORY: Politically vulnerable.
>>MALOOF: We're politically
vulnerable from the standpoint
of the immigration, the
uncontrolled immigration flow.
The fact that we have the
Islamic state coming in.
We know that al-Qaeda has linked
up with drug cartels, MS-13,
and already the
drug cartels, MS-13
are located in 1,200
of our US cities.
This could be an entire
coordinated development.
>>NOORY: Come in and
control, knock out the power,
and then go in.
>>MALOOF: Yep.
Exactly.
And this is--
>>NOORY: Chaos everywhere.
>>MALOOF: This is probably
a worst case scenario,
but if I can think of it, I
know the bad guys have already.
>>NOORY: Well, you know,
and if I were, let's say,
a nation that couldn't stand
our guts-- let's say Russia.
So you put together
this under the auspices
of a terrorist group that
somehow obtained a nuke,
and so they take themselves
out of the picture.
I mean, we're not going to
retaliate against the Russians.
They didn't do this.
But they fund, they create,
they get it all together,
and they have that capability.
>>MALOOF: Yes.
>>NOORY: So you get a
missile launcher on a ship,
send it off on the west coast
or the east coast, and do it.
And look at the chaos
that will happen.
One, we're not going to
retaliate against the Russians
because, theoretically,
we don't know who did it.
This may be the most damaging
possibility I can think of.
>>MALOOF: Well, that's why I say
that the EMP threat is perhaps
the most serious threat today
to our national security.
And because of these
unknowns, and I
think that we need
to prepare for them.
And the tragedy of it all
is that it's all fixable.
>>NOORY: And I'm
amazed, Michael,
it hasn't happened yet.
>>MALOOF: Yes.
And that's why we've
joined with you
to try and make it
happen with legislation.
The federal government has
known about the impact of an EMP
for well over 50 years.
>>NOORY: It is criminal for
them not to fix the grid system.
>>MALOOF: I agree.
>>NOORY: The money we spent
during the 2008 bailout
was absolutely enormous.
We're estimating $1 billion
to $4 billion to fix the grid,
insulate it.
That's nothing.
I call it chump change.
>>MALOOF: It is.
In today's terms, it is.
>>NOORY: Let's do it.
So let's look at a scenario.
We fix the grid system.
We insulate it.
Someone still tries to detonate
a nuke in the atmosphere.
What happens?
Nothing.
>>MALOOF: Something will
happen, but because you're
going to be insulating and
preparing and hardening
the most critical of
your infrastructures,
your life sustaining
infrastructures, your grid,
certainly.
>>NOORY: It's not a devastation.
>>MALOOF: It's
not a devastation.
You'll mitigate the problem.
You won't knock it out-- you
won't eliminate it entirely.
But at least you'll
have something.
You'll be able to still
have communications.
You'll still be able to
probably have electricity, be
able to function.
Your emergency services.
>>NOORY: Your phones
will still work.
>>MALOOF: They could.
Yeah.
If they're hardened.
If everything is hardened.
Right now, this
minute, it will just
knock out your telecommunication
systems completely, as well as
the satellites.
>>NOORY: People can't text.
They'll go crazy.
>>MALOOF: I know.
>>NOORY: But if we do insulate
it and spend the money,
at least we have a nation
that can fight back.
>>MALOOF: Yes.
It will mitigate one serious
flaw in our national security
breakdown.
And we really have it right now.
And this is a very serious one.
It was the Russians,
actually, who
got us to focus on this
problem in the early '80s.
>>NOORY: Are they trying
to insulate their grid?
>>MALOOF: They have.
They're doing it now.
>>NOORY: They are?
>>MALOOF: Yeah.
Any country-- what I've
discovered is that any
country--
>>NOORY: Amazing.
>>MALOOF: That has experienced
warfare on its soil
knows about EMP and is
doing something about it.
The Israelis, the Chinese.
>>NOORY: And a few
states are doing it.
>>MALOOF: The Russians.
>>NOORY: On their own?
>>MALOOF: Yes.
Yeah, I think because
India, Pakistan have nukes
aimed at each other, they
know the impact of an EMP.
They're also doing it.
The Iranians know about it.
>>NOORY: Not too
difficult to do?
To insulate?
>>MALOOF: No.
As long as you're willing to
put the commitment in there.
>>NOORY: The technology's there.
>>MALOOF: And the
technology is there.
Oh, yeah.
The technology is there.
That's why--
>>NOORY: Put together some great
engineers and turn them loose.
>>MALOOF: Yeah.
And I think that you'd see, if
we had-- in the US, if we had,
let's say the president with
his pen and phone, for example,
with an executive order,
could order the DHS,
the Department of
Homeland Security,
immediately to declare--
>>NOORY: To declare
this right now.
>>MALOOF: Right now.
Right now, because
right now, EMP
is not one of its 15
national planning scenarios.
With the stroke of a
pen, he can make it
and order it done
because of this threat.
And the problem is is that
because DHS hasn't done it,
our emergency services at
the state and local levels
that take DHS's cue on how
to prepare for disasters
is not doing it, either.
>>NOORY: What if-- here's
my conspiratorial mind here,
Michael.
What if they want
this to happen?
What if the reason they
haven't moved ahead
to do what is probably the most
obvious thing I've ever seen--
and that's fix the grid
because we're reliant
on electricity-- what if
they want this to happen?
It would crush the nation.
>>MALOOF: Why would they
want to crush the nation?
>>NOORY: Well, let's assume
we've got these one world
government fanatics that
think, you know what?
Let's just get into
the club, but we
have to do it by breaking
down the United States.
Let's eliminate the population.
We want population control.
And let's just let this
happen at one time.
>>MALOOF: Well, if you want
to carry it to that extreme,
I guess that's possible.
>>NOORY: I mean, why else
would you not do this?
>>MALOOF: Right.
Well, and I think that
this is-- more and more
people are coming around
to that general thinking,
just from the comments that
I receive from my articles
at WMD on this,
more and more people
are expressing that concern now.
Why hasn't it been done?
Why isn't the federal
government focusing on it?
>>NOORY: What are they up to?
>>MALOOF: Yeah.
The Department of
Defense knows about it.
They are hardening
their systems,
their operational systems.
However, their bases
throughout the country
rely 99% on the electrical grid.
They could be knocked out.
They don't have backups.
They have generators, but
that only lasts for as long
as there's fuel
for the generators.
And if there's electrical
components to them, forget it.
They're knocked out.
>>NOORY: I mean, how do you
communicate with your subs
to say launch?
>>MALOOF: Yeah.
>>NOORY: You know, retaliate.
Do this.
>>MALOOF: It will
be very problematic.
The satellites could
be knocked out.
>>NOORY: So in terms of trying
to get legislation passed,
which is the campaign
we're undertaking--
Nick Begich, of course, has
written a book about HAARP.
His brother's Mark
Begich, from Alaska.
I've asked him to
get Mark involved
in something like this, too.
What else is out there?
Who else is out there
that could help?
>>MALOOF: Well, we have
established an informal EMP
coalition of people that
comprise Newt Gingrich,
former Speaker of the House.
>>NOORY: This was a
major issue for him.
>>MALOOF: Oh, yes.
He's the only one during the
presidential campaign last time
to, when asked
the question, what
is your greatest national
security concern,
he says an EMP attack.
And everyone just
went, what's that?
>>NOORY: What's that?
Exactly.
>>MALOOF: They had no idea.
>>NOORY: Yeah.
>>MALOOF: But he's
very aware of it.
He knows the implications
of such a development.
And I would add that because
he was a member of Congress,
he was very much
knowledgeable and involved
with the congressionally
mandated EMP commission
that in 2008 outlined
all of these concerns
and recommendations.
>>NOORY: And what
happened to it?
>>MALOOF: And made
recommendations.
None of the recommendations
were implemented.
>>NOORY: Were accepted.
>>MALOOF: That's right.
>>NOORY: And that
program is dead?
>>MALOOF: It was a commission
that issued a report.
That report is
available, even on--
>>NOORY: We wouldn't even
need a new commission.
You just take the report.
>>MALOOF: Just take the report.
It's still very valid today.
Absolutely.
That report is
readily available.
You can just Google it,
and it's EMP Commission,
and the whole PDF,
it's right there.
It's over 200 pages.
>>NOORY: What do we
need to do, though,
to get legislators in the
Senate and the Congress
to simply say, one guy, I'm
going to initiate legislation
to get the grid insulated?
>>MALOOF: Well, there
has been legislation
introduced in this
latest Congress.
The house has an EMP caucus.
It's chaired by representative
Trent Franks of Arizona.
He's been pushing this.
And it has passed
the House, called
the Shield Act, a few times.
It just can never get
passed in the Senate.
We have some people who are
very much in the pockets
of the utilities, who just
refuse to go along with that.
Primarily out of cost and
the time it would take.
And I think that if you had, at
the national level, just an EMP
coordinator under the
National Security Council,
again, something that
the president could
do without legislation,
he could coordinate,
or she could coordinate that.
All of the federal,
state, local efforts to--
>>NOORY: Instantly.
>>MALOOF: To do this.
Absolutely.
And even then, even then it's
going to take a good five
years, so we're on
extremely borrowed time.
>>NOORY: Oh, yeah.
And it could happen anytime.
>>MALOOF: Anytime.
>>NOORY: Anytime.
>>NOORY: In our next episode,
we'll talk about X flares.
That's something we
can't control right now.
>>MALOOF: That's correct.
>>NOORY: If I were Mark
Zuckerberg from Facebook,
or Bill Gates from Microsoft,
I would say, all right,
Maloof says it's going
to cost $2 billion.
If this happens,
I'm out of business.
Facebook goes down,
Microsoft goes down.
We all go down.
That's chump change.
>>MALOOF: Yes.
>>NOORY: So why don't we, Mr.
Zuckerberg, and me, Mr. Gates,
let's each put a billion
dollars into the deal
and do it privately.
Could that be done?
>>MALOOF: Oh, sure.
It could be done.
But you want to make
sure there's consistency
across the country, and that's
why the national legislation is
important, because it will set
out standards and criteria so
that you have a uniformity.
Because the federal
government hasn't acted,
we've now tried to
take a different route,
and that is go to the states.
That's still an
important approach
in which we're trying to
approach governors, state
legislators.
State legislatures
do have oversight
of the utilities,
public utilities.
We're going in those
directions, but it's
going to be very uneven
in terms of implementation
and what's actually passed
within the implementation.
That's why we need
a national standard.
That's why the federal
legislation is there.
And it will ensure that hardware
is strengthened in order
to deal with this EMP
across the country.
>>NOORY: What I'm concerned
about is the I told you so.
And I hope to god,
Michael, that you and I
don't have to say
that to anybody.
>>MALOOF: Well, it
would be a crying shame.
I've had one experience
on my watch go sour,
and I still regret it, even now.
When I was at the Defense
Department and we could have
done something about
it, but we didn't.
>>NOORY: A couple years
ago I was in Saint Louis,
and a local drugstore
lost its power.
Well known chain.
And so the lights are out, it's
daytime, and I drive in there.
You know, I needed to
pick up some stuff.
And I'm saying, well,
maybe it's not even open.
They were open.
And there were lines of
people at the cash register--
that was not working-- and
I'm talking to the manager,
saying, well, are you open?
Have you closed?
He said no, no, we're open,
and we're doing this manually.
Within 10 minutes, Michael,
that line of 10 people
was now 75, with people
saying, hurry up!
Get this done.
The poor cashier is trying to
figure this stuff out manually.
Right?
So my bill's $72.18.
Here's my credit card.
Well, it won't work.
>>MALOOF: That's right.
>>NOORY: Well, sir,
do you have cash?
Yeah, here's cash.
But the cashier
doesn't even know
how much change
to give you back,
because they're not trained
in mathematics anymore.
>>MALOOF: That's right.
That's right.
>>NOORY: Those days are gone.
Store manager came back to
all of us and said, I'm sorry,
we're closed.
Just put your items away.
Soon as the power comes
back, we're ready.
That's a small,
tiny little example
of what will be magnitude
across the country.
>>MALOOF: Yes.
Well, the whole
country will shut down.
Whole country will shut down.
All of your vital--
>>NOORY: Can't get your money.
You can't get gasoline.
>>MALOOF: No, you can't.
You won't be able to get any of
your life sustaining needs met,
and that's why we're
suggesting that a good portion
of the population would be wiped
out from starvation and death.
>>NOORY: I think you're
absolutely right.
And this is something
that's going
to last much longer
than one or two days.
>>MALOOF: This could
last months, maybe years.
Just on some of
these, it depends
upon how quickly we'd
be able to respond,
and if the whole
world was affected,
we would be standing
in line like everybody
else for a number of years.
>>NOORY: Well, in addition
to everything else,
he who launches the EMP
attack has a secondary plan,
don't they?
>>MALOOF: Sure.
Oh, yeah.
They'd have to.
And that's why I'm very
concerned about the existing
vulnerabilities that we have
coming in from the south,
with this EMP just being the--
>>NOORY: Catalyst.
>>MALOOF: Well, it could be
the frosting on the cake.
>>NOORY: Sure.
>>MALOOF: It could be the
crowning glory, if you will.
Once there's all this
other havoc going on,
it'll be a distraction.
And then this thing happens,
and you're not expecting it.
>>NOORY: No.
And then it's too late.
>>MALOOF: Then it's too late.
>>NOORY: We've warned them.
I don't want to say it again.
I don't want to
say I told you so,
but what needs to
be done immediately?
>>MALOOF: We need to get
the legislation passed,
start getting this country at
a level of focus and attention
on this that treats this
as a national security
priority for this country.
That's why Congress
needs to be giving
this the utmost of priorities
as soon as they come back
in the next session, next
year, early next year,
and move this through
very, very rapidly.
Hopefully November
elections will change things
in the Senate, that we can move
these things through and compel
the president to sign it.
And if he decides to
veto, override the veto.
>>NOORY: Do you think our
campaign will at least make
them a little more aware
of getting this done?
>>MALOOF: Oh, absolutely.
Given your outreach,
and ours, I think
that combining our
resources like this
is going to be important.
We are educating the people
on what the problem is.
It's not just us
whistling about this.
We have experts who say that
this is what can happen.
And we have the
documentation to show it.
And the fact that the
EMP commission, which
was congressionally mandated,
said the same thing,
it's good as gold.
>>NOORY: I wonder if we can get
a live hearing before Congress
where we participate.
I would go there,
you would be there,
Forstchen would be
there, and experts.
>>MALOOF: Mm-hm.
>>NOORY: And clearly
get this message across.
I wonder if there's any
way we can get that done?
A public hearing on
national television.
>>MALOOF: Well, I
think-- there have
been occasional congressional
hearings on what
the EMP is about.
I think we would need to
get with the right people,
with the EMP caucus,
coordinate something with them.
Maybe get Trent Franks
on your program.
>>NOORY: I'd love to.
>>MALOOF: Peter Pry
is another person.
He wrote the forward to my book.
He was the staff director
to the EMP commission.
He's very knowledgeable.
Former CIA guy, and
he knows his stuff.
Along with Jim Woolsey.
Get Jim Woolsey on board.
I think when you get these folks
who are living and breathing
this issue today,
it's going to work.
Frank Gaffney is another
one from the Center
for Security Policy
in Washington.
We're all part of
this EMP coalition,
and I think that it's going
to be necessary to accentuate
this and actually accelerate it.
>>NOORY: All right, let's set
it up for a Coast to Coast
show to start.
>>MALOOF: OK.
>>NOORY: Let's get
them all together.
>>MALOOF: OK.
>>NOORY: All right?
>>MALOOF: Absolutely.
>>NOORY: Your little
project to help us.
>>MALOOF: OK.
Well, I'm on board.
>>NOORY: Michael, thanks for
being on "Beyond Belief."
>>MALOOF: Thank you.
>>NOORY: In an upcoming episode
on "Beyond Belief," Michael
Maloof and I will talk
about X flares from the sun.
So it's not just an EMP attack
that could knock out the grid.
A solar flare could do
the very same thing,
and we'll talk about
that in an upcoming
edition of "Beyond Belief."